we begin in New York where the UN
Security Council has just adopted a
resolution to boost Aid deliveries to
Gaza Russia and the United States
abstained on the resolution Paving the
way for the draft text to be adopted a
resolution needs at least nine votes in
favor and no vetos in order to pass the
13 other members of the council voted in
favor the vote was delayed for several
days as us diplomats haggled over the
wording of the
text
for more now let's go to Washington to
our correspondent Janelle dealan she has
been following the yeah the haggling
that's been going on for days now at the
UN Security Council and it was about
semantics wasn't it
Janelle yes uh this was an epic battle
of semantics and negotiators worked very
hard to find wording that was acceptable
especially to the US the US had taken
issue with language in the text among
them the call for a cessation of
hostilities as well as language in the
text that provided for putting the UN in
charge of inspecting Aid deliveries to
Gaza now it took issue with that
language around the cessation of
hostilities because the US won't support
language that sounds like it could be
related to a ceasefire it's position is
always that a ceasefire only helps Hamas
and it did not want to support the
creation of a un Le monitoring mechanism
because it didn't want to see Israel cut
out of the process Israel did not want
to give up control of inspecting the
cargo coming into the ga into Gaza for
uh potentially weapons smuggled in with
a cargo or perhaps concrete that would
help Hamas build more tunnels but
clearly the language was adapted in such
a way that allowed the US to accept this
version even though it did end up
abstaining in the end again over
language issues because this resolution
did not contain language condemning
Hamas for its actions on October 7 but
because all you need is nine votes in
favor and no veto that is how we got the
resolution pass today and Janelle we
know the United States had vetoed the
last two resolutions why do we see this
change this time with the United States
abstaining you know this time around we
could really see that the US was trying
to balance its support for Israel with
its reluctance to veto yet another
resolution and stand isolated on the
world stage it was the US uh that kept
pushing for more time and working with
the uh with the UAE negotiators uh in
order to find a compromise and this is a
water down version of the resolution to
be sure instead of a cessation of
hostilities it calls for the UNH it
calls for unhindered humanitarian access
as well as for the creation of
conditions for the cessation of
hostilities that uh push for a un Le
monitoring mechanism has turned into the
Secretary General a call for the
Secretary General to appoint a special
coordinator to Monitor and facilitate uh
the delivery of Aid to Gaza in
consultation with relevant parties so
meaning Israel and Egypt but as for the
other Security Council Members you know
the ation was clearly that that this
resolution had to get passed no matter
how diluted this language in the end but
really the bigger picture to be looked
at here is that this was a re resolution
meant to scale up Aid to the people of
Gaza and meant to protect humanitarian
workers in delivering that Aid and the
fact that it was so hard to get to this
outcome perhaps does not bode so well
for the international process in terms
of how it is handling the Israel Gaza
war and of course it doesn't bode well
for the gazans themselves yeah very good
point to make there DW is Janelle deal
in Washington with the latest on this un
Security Council resolution finally
passing Janelle thank you all right for
more now I want to cross over to
journalist Sammy soal in Jerusalem Sammy
good evening to you this UN resolution
it does not call for a suspension of
hostilities so is this even a story
where you
are
I can tell you that in the Israeli
public opinion H this is not very
interesting there was a recent poll
showing that even if there would have
been a un a security Council resolution
that would have ruled for a ceased fire
90% of the Israeli public they think
that Israel should not abide by the
security Council now of course those who
are in the foreign Ministry and in the
United Nation s they are quite content
today as this resolution passed without
this kind of a strong language that
would call for a a stop of the
hostilities a the ambassador to the
United Nations gadan he thanked the
Americans he thanked Biden for his
position and for the position of the
United States in the security Council
and what all the Israeli official
are looking at is is some of the
language in this resolution that what
they believe still lets Israel control
and supervise what goes in and what goes
out from the Gaza Strip and this is
something that many of the humanitarian
organizations are concerned about and
Sammy I want to ask you about what the
head of the UN Gutierrez said after
today's vote he said basically that the
problem is is and the problem remains
Israel's bombing of Gaza has there been
any reaction to that in
Israel well as I already said the United
Nations here is considered to be a
hostile organization to Israel uh one of
the things that were said today uh by
Israeli Representatives is that the
security Council has not condemned yet
the Hamas attack back on the 7th of
October and basically all these
statements that come out from the United
Nations are disregarded and I think the
only player that has some clout here in
Israel is the
Americans we're joining me now is
Michael Link's associate professor The
Faculty of law at Western University in
London Ontario he was until last year a
un special repor for the human rights
situation in the Palestinian territories
Professor it's good to have you with us
this
resolution does not include a call for
an immediate ceasefire but rather it
calls for creating conditions for a
cessation of hostilities could you help
us understand um what does that
mean sure let's let's remember that this
is a considerably watered down
resolution excuse me uh from uh from
what was proposed on Monday by the um
United Arab Emirates um there are three
aspects of the resolution which uh which
we saw on Monday which are not in the
final version that was voted upon today
including uh a call for what was in the
on Monday urgent and sustainable um
cessation of hostilities which I think
is another word uh for a ceasefire we
know uh that a ceasefire resolution was
overwhelmingly adopted by the UN General
Assembly uh roughly 10 days ago uh and
this obviously is the mood of both the
Diplomatic world and public opinion
around the world what we have through
the use of a threat of a un a US veto at
the security Council um is a resolution
that calls for um the upgrading of
humanitarian Aid to get into uh to Gaza
um the one of the areas where um the US
was negotiating uh with uh other
countries had to do with who was going
to be the uh monitor of the aid going in
the resolution that call for the UN to
be the exclusive monitor of the aid
going in this is what was a precedent we
had with respect to Aid going into Syria
uh the United States objected and it's
allowing uh and the resolution I think
opens the door to Israel also joining
the possibility uh of being able to
monitor the aid the fear among many is
that uh Israeli monitoring will be slow
will be laborious and the aid won't be
getting in as efficiently as it
otherwise could Professor this
resolution it calls for things that are
already enshrined in international law
I'm thinking of for example making it as
easy as possible to get Aid to civilians
calling for civilians to be protected so
you could understand someone on the
outside may be posing the question
what's the purpose of this resolution
actually one may want to well want to
ask that uh that question the um the
language of the resolution that was
adopted earlier today um removed
language that was in the original
resolution on Monday which would have
condemned indiscriminate attacks though
that very phrase against civilians
that's now gone from the final version
of the the resolution um this is a bit
of an irony given that that wording
itself uh was used by President Joe
Biden over the last several weeks with
respect to his criticism of uh of the
Israeli conduct of military operations
there all that the resolution really
does is restate the importance and the
centrality of international humanitarian
law um with respect to protecting
civilians which was already on the books
which virtually every country in the
world have been asking uh Israel to uh
uh to keep so we're really in many ways
no further ahead uh with respect to uh I
guess assigning responsibility or
accountability uh to uh uh to Israel
with respect to how it's conducted its
military operations in Gaza the
resolution calls for a un coordinator
with staff at the border to do
what well this is to monitor uh uh any
Aid going in as to whether or not it may
also contain materials or weapons that
might Aid Hamas um was we know the
kareim Shalom um Crossing in uh from
Israel into Gaza uh was opened up
finally under uh International pressure
by Israel uh in the last two weeks some
Aid has been going in there not enough
nearly to uh to meet the humanitarian
needs there but the uh Aid going through
there as well as through the Rafa
Crossing from Egypt into Gaza will have
um monitoring by all parties I think the
resolution says which would include
Israel so that it U it can be satisfied
uh that uh nothing's going in that's
going to Aid Hamas and I think that was
a huge sticking point over the last four
days in the negotiations between the
Americans and the rest of the members on
the security Council what about
violations of this resolution are there
consequences or can anyone and everyone
act with
impunity well I'm what I what worries me
in in the watering down of this language
we've seen over the last four days and
particularly the enormous gap between
what the UN Security Council passed 10
days ago sorry the UN General Assembly
passed 10 days ago and what the security
Council has passed today um is I suppose
assignment even an indirect language of
responsibility uh for the humanitarian
catastrophe that we're seeing in in Gaza
and the extraordinary number of deaths
of uh Palestinian civilians the civilian
death toll in Gaza let's keep in mind is
the highest civilian death toll for such
a period short period of time and for
any conflict in the 21st century we may
have to go all the way back uh to
Vietnam uh to be able to measure um the
amount of Civilian deaths in such a
short period of time so there's really
nothing in this language which appears
to um commit Israel to uh uh to be more
mindful in its operation
and Israel of course knows that it has
uh the solid backing of the United
States with respect to the Diplomatic
Shield that the United States Wheels as
a permanent member with uh veto power
for more I want to bring in military
analyst Frank leadwich he is a former
British Military Intelligence officer he
joins us from Oxford Frank it's good to
see you we appreciate you staying up on
this Friday night to talk with us um the
resolution it has passed but we just
heard Antonio gues there single out
Israel's offensive as being the real
problem here creating massive obstacles
to Aid shipments this resolution is not
going to change that is
it yes well there may also be a problem
inherent in a terrorist group that
murdered close on 1300 people a few
weeks ago and that refuses to surrender
not withstanding the fact it's being
pummeled and will certainly be
militarily defeated but there is some
truth of course in The Other Well a
great deal of truth that the damage
created by Israel's offensive whether
willfully or otherwise is continuing to
cause problems and it does seem to put
it mildly and it does seem that most Aid
officials are saying that really this
will make very little difference on the
ground and you can understand why if
you're responsible for a team of people
uh to going into such a place when
you're not at all sure that uh bombs
won't be landing either in your vicinity
or upon you uh you may be very reluctant
to send that team in with whatever Aid
they have and those very brave people
will have to make that decision over the
next uh few days I will say one thing
though there is a positive in this that
the appointment of a un coordinator will
create mechanisms I think should be very
very important going
forward you know Frank days like today
at the UN they are considered a a field
day for cynics I mean we've got Israel
being judged by the international
Community being judged by its peers but
in this asymmetrical conflict Gaza is
not and I mean it it makes you wonder so
what's the whole point of it I mean what
do you say to
this yeah well Israel is being judged
every single day and I think there's a
great deal of truth if in the statements
of Israel that that people forget why
this is happening in the first place and
I'm not going to repeat myself about the
uh choices that are still inherent in or
still uh open to Hamas or the fact that
they use their own people as as human
Shields and are still uh hiding uh at
least 130
hostages uh but you know look the UN can
only do what it can do and there are
signals I think that they've given today
and particularly I've got regard here I
think we must have regard to to the
signal given by the United States and
what what I think would appear to a
neutral Observer is that United States
whilst offering a bone as it were to to
those looking for ceasefire is also
sending a strong message to to Israeli
commanders and I'm talking here
Netanyahu and his team to the effect
that you humiliate us at your peril and
that our support you cannot guarantee
absolute unquestioning support going
forward whatever the President says I
was quite surprised not withstanding the
fact that there was no ceasefire in the
in the uh final resol ution I was quite
surprised that the U us did not veto
this again as they have tended to do
over the past few few few years in fact
decades on behalf of Israel so uh I
think this will have uh provided some
form of uh warning as it were to Israel
if not even a slap on the wrist uh but
something reasonably significant and
mean as you said yourself at the in the
introduction words do count yeah we are
quickly approaching the end of this year
um this war is 3 months old I want to
ask you as a military man what does the
IDF what does it have to show for its
efforts the past 12
weeks what the IDF says today is that
they're close they said they're close to
clearing parts of Northern or they say
Northern G I don't think that's the case
they're of course fighting as we speak
and KH Unice and bombs are dropping no
doubt and have dropped in the time that
I have been speaking
uh they have revealed they say hundreds
of tunnels and they've discovered uh
headquarters or former headquarters but
look the key objectives have not yet
been attained they have not killed or
captured any of the senior commanders
involved in the atrocities on the 7th
yet I suspect they will in due course
we've had some false Dawns there and
they've you know in a sense to to coin a
famous uh Roman uh general you know we
we we may have Victory but we we preside
over ruins and those ruins of course
will need to be dealt with in due course
which will require a military strategy
not only to deal with the relatively
unimportant F matter of the buildings
but the vital issue of the people and by
conducting the campaign in the way they
have which some might say at the very
best is um verging on The Reckless and
others may say well at the very least
they're not deliberately and I would
very deliberately killing civilians what
they are doing is creating a situation
over the next few years where they're
going to have to be dealing and we all
know this with an Insurgency now whether
you can call that a success is highly
debatable so it's one thing having or
attaining your Tactical goals which it
prob the IDF probably will over the next
month or two or probably three months
not withstanding the fact they may then
turn north God forbid into Lebanon let's
see um but this the Strategic element
the long-term political element how many
insurgents have they created in the
manner of of of Victory uh and without a
political strategy something to hang on
to something for the people of Gaza and
indeed the people of the Palestinian
territories to look to as some kind of
future they're looking really at uh uh a
political Wasteland and I think still
the Americans are putting pressure on
them to come up with some kind of
workable Strate iic solution to this
with very limited success so look there
are tactical gains they're doing
militarily what they what we all thought
they would but I think strategically
we're still at a dead end military
analyst Frank lwi is always Frank we
appreciate your time and um you've been
with us throughout all the year we
appreciate your candid analysis very
valuable there's so many flash points
around the world thank
you